My case you know let's look at grouping data using a GROUP BY clause.
So here Rife's selected Stoff from our bookings table.
And you can see we have an ID field a screening ID field and a customer id field.
And here I've written a query which says Select County ID from bookings.
So let's run now.
And you can see there are 410 bookings in the bookings table.
But what if we want to get the number of bookings per person so let's select start from bookings again
and you can see we have this customer ID.
So let's try and select customer ID here.
And count the ID.
So hopefully this is going to show us each customer ID on the count for each customer ID from the bookings
table.
So hopefully we'll get the number of bookings for each customer service that's now.
And you can see we've actually got an error saying we need a group by expression.
So basically any color which we've stated here which isn't an aggregate function.
So in this case customer ID must appear in a group by function group by clause.
So I set up a group by clause now to do that.
We just need to go on the next line and type group by followed by the column name.
So in this case is customer ID and then we can just run this and you can see if we get rid of this error
bar.
Now you can see we have more than one value returns.
We actually have a value for each customer ID so we can see custom one made 16 bookings in October 2017
customer 2 made for customer free and made six etc etc..
So now we have our count of our ID field groups by customer ID.
So if you use an aggregate function.
But we've got more than 1 ROI returns and that's because we've grouped by our customer id
so select store from bookings again.
And you can see we also have this screening I.D. select select screening I.D. as well.
And this query here.
So let's tie screening I.D. so as well as getting customer ID for each booking.
We should also get the screening I.D. So that's right.
And you can see as returns an error again saying that expression too.
So the screening I.D. is not in a group by clause.
So any color which we put here must appear in the group by clause.
If it's not being aggregated over so we can put a second column in here we can say grouped by custom
ID Colma screening ID and let's run
and you can see we now have results returned.
So let's have a look at their results.
Say what is it saying is saying bad customer id one made one booking for a screening idea 11 he made
one booking for screening ID 24 one booking for 33 37 etc. in October 2017.
So we're now getting a combination of our customer ID and our screening I.D. and the number of times
that customer made a booking for that screening.
So a customer ID made one booking for each of these screenings and then a customer ID made one booking
for each of these screenings and three four five etc. for every single customer ID.
So what's happening is for every unique customer id plus screening Id say 111 11 is unique 124 is unique.
1:33 is unique etc. we we're getting one value returned in the count.
Id call him say 1 1 1 1 1 etc..
So this is what happens when we grouped by customer ID and grouped by screening ID.
So lets try and write a complicated escrow query where we are going to join four tables together and
we're going to include a group by clause.
So I want to join the customers table the bookings table the screenings table and the films table together
to get some good information in our results.
So let's type selects death dog name.
So I want the film name from the name from the films table.
Then I will start time so I need to go to the screenings table and get the start time
I want the customers first and last name so I need to write customer first name and customer last name
and then find the I want to count on the bookings Id like I did in previous query.
So I want to write down the dot ID and I want to say from the films path and then I want to join the
films table together with the screenings table.
So when I write joy in screenings screenings ass all in half day by day.
So the ID field and the films table is the crew to the film Id call them in the screenings table and
then I want to join the screenings table with the bookings table.
So last night.
Joining bookings be on Star ID.
Is he to be thought screening ID.
And then the last joint I want to do is between the bookings table and the customers table select type
join customers see on the customer ID is equal to see ID.
So that's it for our Joines.
Now we need to add a group by clause so we need to group by four different columns because we have four
columns in our select stateman which are not being aggregated over.
So we need to say group by name and then see your last name.
See dog first name.
Yes start time
and then not sit for the group by an hour or so when I do order by close.
So I want to order by the start time says order by astore start time and run that query
and you can see we have the films here.
We have the start time.
We have the first and last name and then we have the number of bookings that they made for each film
so we can see here.
Wyong John Smith and Simon Davis all made up bookings for Dunkirk which was shown on the first day of
October 1 pm and then for Blade Runner at 1:30 pm on the 1st of October we had Teresa Davis Sally and
Emma Watson and so on and so on.
So we had Dunkirk at 2pm from no Smith and you can look for all this data here to see who made bookings
for which film and at which time and how many bookings for the group by clause for now.
Just remember that any column you selects in this next statement which isnt being aggregated over must
appear in the group by clause.